All right, so in this next video, what we're going to do is we're actually going to set up what is
in the demo called the countdown component.
So the countdown component is basically, in essence, this component right here and we are providing
this to you out of the box, this specific component that's going to handle counting down the time this
component kind of like the button component, is an isolated component, which sole purpose is to visualize
numbers in this box and subsequently count them down.
If you go into the links on the resources, what you will find is a resource to the actual countdown
component.
And what all you need to do is copy out that code specifically for the countdown component.
And will add it to a component inside of our snack.
So we go over here to components and we do Countdown Dot J.S..
So now let's look at what this component is actually trying to do, this components.
So visual rim, there is a text output with the form at a time of the minutes and the format of time
of the seconds left.
We take the milliseconds and we kind of divide the by a thousand divided by six and we have the minutes.
And if we take the milliseconds, divide them by a thousand and then modulo 60, we have the seconds
left.
So all they're rendering out is the minutes and the seconds.
That's the sole purpose of this component, but there's a bit more complexity to it because if we look
at the top of this component, basically what you'll see is that this component has some utility functions
to convert minutes to milliseconds.
It also has a function to form at the time.
Now, the specifics of how these functions work are not really relevant for the core of this course,
but let's go through them just to look at it.
Minutes The Milly's takes in an amount in minutes and then the time, sometimes a thousand times, sometimes
60, which converts them to milliseconds.
Format time will take the amount of time left and then.
If it's smaller than 10, a pin that would have zero or otherwise remove time.
This is purely for the visual aspect over here where we add format time because if we're counting down,
let's say 10 nine eight seven six, once you reach nine seven six five, the zero in front isn't necessarily
something that is visualized.
So we need to format it in order to add it.
If we don't add it, then you would just see zero zero nine eight seven six, which doesn't look right
in terms of like a countdown timer.
So at the top here we have a cast interval is use ref.
Use ref is a hook from react.
Now the mean difference between use ref and you state is that you use state will cause a re render and
use ref will not also similarly use state exposure to variables in an array syntax.
One is the holder of the actual value and the other is the center.
A ref only returns you one object in which you can set it to whatever variable you want in, if that
variable changes, if something happens to it.
It won't really cause a rerun to happen on the screen.
So when we count down, basically what we're going to use is something called set interval, which is
in JavaScript, a function that allows you during a certain period of time to call a function.
So here we're saying every 1000 milliseconds or every second call the countdown function.
That's what our intervals doing.
So when we use React, use ref, we're using it to track the value of set interval so that we can clear
it in case you know, we want to pause the timer or in case our component is removed from the screen.
That's all it's trying to do.
So the way that this works is if we look over here constantly, we're setting the initial value to null.
And then when we come into our function, our first use effect use effect has this property where if
you don't give it any properties, that's going to be the equivalent of mounting the component.
But we're passing, this is paused.
Which is a property on the countdown timer.
Now this is going to be evaluated, the very first time pass gets a value, which is either true or
false.
So if it is paused, we're going to clear the interval from interval duck current.
So we're tracking the actual return value of the interval we've set.
If it was given a value, if it wasn't, then we won't do it for safety reasons because we're not going
to clear null.
It's only if interval was actually set over here previously.
OK, so looking at that, well, let's say we come in and we're not past, then we're going to set interval
to set interval and we're going to call the countdown function every second.
If we remove this from the screen, we're going to clear the interval completely and that's for the
safety of memory.
Cool.
Now, if we look at every time milliseconds changes, so OK, let's go look at here.
So every second we're going to call Countdown if we're in a countdown function.
So let's say a press start every second, it's going to call Countdown.
That's what's happening over here.
Now, if we look at Countdown, Countdown is calling set milliseconds, but it's calling seven milliseconds
with a callback function so that we isolate the behavior.
And the reason we call it this way is so that we're ensured that time is always the previously set amount
of milliseconds.
That was given to Milly's.
Now why don't we just you, you know, set Milly's and then do Milly's minus whatever?
Well, Milly's is being adapted as we countdown in the interval, so you may get into weird memory states
while doing that.
Every time we call Countdown, we want to ensure that the time passed in or the time being manipulated
is the time that was previously given to milliseconds.
So we do this callback function and then we're ensured that this value is the previous value.
Whatever we return at the end is what is going to be set whenever we return at any point in the function
actually is what's going to be set in milliseconds.
So we get the previous time and then we say if time is zero, hey, you know, at the end the timer
and return zero.
But if it isn't, take the amount of milliseconds, take a second off of them and return that.
And that's how you see a countdown here each second.
And that, in a nutshell, is kind of how this countdown timer works.
Now, of course, every time it counts down, we need to report progress.
So the function or the component that's going to use this needs a callback to know, Hey, where am
I at in my countdown cycle?
And that's what our progress is for.
On end is a function that will be passed in by the parent to tell the countdown what to do when it ends.
And that's about it.
That's the countdown function component, in a nutshell.